Now let me return to part-of-speech taking
and say a little bit more about, how
sequence models befall and what kind of
features end up being used and used for.
So what are the main sources of
information part-of-speech taking?
One source of information is
knowledge of neighboring words and
their purpose of speech tags.
Bill saw that man yesterday.
We have a lot of part
of speech ambiguities.
So, Bill can be either a proper noun or
a verb.
Saw, can be either a noun or a verb.
That, can be either a determiner,
or what's tagged as IN when
introducing a complement clause.
Man, can be a noun or a verb.
But at this point we start to notice
that there are some constraints from
neighborhoods.
So it just can't be the case that,
that, is the determiner and
it's followed by a verb.
That this is a bad sequence.
And so
this is sequence information that gives us
some ideas as to how to
part-of-speech tag things.
And when people started working
on part-of-speech tags,
people thought of that as
the main source of evidence.
But it turns out that
that's not really the case.
That the easiest and
biggest source of evidence is statistics.
Knowledge about how often words
have different parts of speech.
So we can also get a long
way by just saying, man,
is very rarely used as a verb.
And therefore,
just without even looking at the context,
we probably should take
the part-of-speech tag noun for man.
And that latter source of
information proves most useful, but
that's not to mean that the first source
of information isn't also useful.
So what we're going to want to do is
start putting more and better features
into our maximum entry tagger,
producing a feature based sequence model.
And one part of that is just features
that we can find over the word itself.
So knowing what the word is is useful, but
it turns out you can get a lot of
further value, especially from rare and
unknown words by also putting in features
that pick out properties of words.
So, looking not just to the word,
but it's lower case form.
So, maybe there are many words that we
haven't seen capitalized at the beginning
of a sentence, but
if we know what their lower case form is,
and its parts-of-speech are,
then that will help us.
Knowing the beginning of a word,
so if you know a word starts with,
un, that gives you a bit of information
about what its part-of-speech is.
Knowing the suffix of a word,
so if you know a word ends in,
ly, it's almost certainly
an adverb in English.
Capitalization is useful.
So in English, the capital letter,
once you're away from the beginning of
the sentence, is a very good
clue that you gotta proper noun.
And here's an interesting different
kind of feature that we've made a lot of
use of in some of our Stanford systems.
We call these word shape features, an idea
first suggested by Michael Collins.
It's a different way at making features
from words that creates natural
equivalent classes that is very useful for
generalization.
And so the idea here is that you're
mapping a word into of the small
set of equivalence classes
that represents its shape.
So here what we're doing, and there are
different exact schemes that you can use.
We can say, this is a digit character,
this is also a digit character.
Let's collapse for
our equivalence classing sequence
of characters that are the same.
Then there's a hyphen here, and
then we've got a sequence of
lower case letter characters.
And so
we will give that the word shape of d-x.
Some number of digit, followed by hyphen,
followed some number
of lower case letters.
And that kind of feature
proves to be a very useful
feature in quite a few of
our discriminative models.
So here's the headline, good news.
If you get clever using all
these kinds of features and
just build a model that looks at
the current word and assigns a tag to it,
it turns out that without looking
at the context whatsoever,
you can build a part of speech taker
that overall gets 93.7% of words right.
And actually does quite well
on unknown words as well.
Commonly we pull out separately the
accuracy of the unknown words because it's
always lower and can be distinctively
different from the accuracy for
known words.
So here's some figures overall
just to give you a picture
of the kind of accuracies you should be
expecting from part-of-speech taggers, and
how different features
impact the classification.
So we discussed before,
this idea of a baseline method
of just giving the most frequent tag to
words and calling everything else a noun.
So overall, that gives about 90%, but
only gets about half of
the unknown words right.
The next set of models that
people looked at were HMM models,
hidden Markov models, which I'm not
really going to cover in this class.
But this was in the mid-90s, the state
of art of part-of-speech tagging.
And so
that got around 95% of all words right and
did just a little bit
better on unknown words.
We just saw, on the previous slide,
that just having a straight classifier,
no sequence model, but
with which carefully chosen features,
actually works rather well.
It does much better on unknown words.
And doesn't actually perform
badly on known words.
But people have gone on from there.
The idea that you could use features
to do a better job was able
to be incorporated into
hidden Markov models as well.
And so produced this high performance
hidden Markov model based tagger,
which used feature-based ideas for
predicting unknown words.
And that performed rather nicely.
So it gets around 96.2% overall and very
competitive performance on unknown words.
But you can keep on building features
into your maximum-entropy Markov model,
including using context features that
we didn't have in the first model.
So then if we go into sort of
a standard Markov marker model tagger,
the kind we've discussed, that that might
be getting almost 97% on all words.
And start doing better,
again, on unknown words.
A network has been pushed up further at
several places, including at Stanford.
So at Stanford, we have a model almost
like an maximum-entropy Markov model,
but allows some
bidirectional dependencies.
And so that's then pushing the overall
accuracy after about 97.2%.
And pushing up the unknown word
accuracy further toward that 90%.
And that's getting close to how good you
can expect part-of-speech taggers to
perform.
Because for reasons of humans themselves
not being sure of what the right answer is
to a part-of-speech tagging problems.
And also just because the gold standards
have errors because sometimes human's goof
and put in the wrong part-of-speech tag,
even when it seems like
the correct answer is clear.
But it seems like around 98% is the upper
bound of what you could possibly
hope to score on the kind of test sets
we have for part-of-speech tagging.
And if one wants to keep on working on
improving things, normally the way one
goes about that is by staring hard at
the output of your part-of-speech tag, or
whatever it is.
And looking at where it makes errors and
thinking of ways in which you could encode
some information into features that
would let you detect that something has
gone wrong and get the system to
prefer some other configuration.
I'm just going to give
an example of that now.
So, here we have an error of
the part-of-speech tagger,
there's the word, as.
And the part-of-speech tagger has
chosen the preposition tag for
it, whereas what it should
have chosen is the adverb tag.
Because this is, as soon, modifying soon.
Well, how could we fix that?
Well, it seems like the information that
we want to use is that if the next word
is, soon, that's a really good clue that
as will be functioning as an adverb.
And so we can fix this error by adding
a feature that looks at the next word.
So we're using next words,
as well as previous words and
previous part-of-speech tags.
So here the part-of-speech tagger for,
intrinsic,
has labeled it as a proper noun.
That's a common error because if the
part-of-speech tagger sees a capitalized
word that it never saw
in the training data,
normally its first best guess is to say,
that's a proper noun.
But that's not necessarily true at the
beginning of a sentence when all words get
capitalized.
But maybe we actually know about the word,
intrinsic.
And that was seen several
times in the training data.
And we know that it's an adjective.
So if we can utilize that knowledge we'd
be able to get this case right as well.
So if we put in a feature of
what's the word, lowercased,
that that feature would argue that this
word should be tagged as an adjective.
And so we might be able to
hope to fix that error.
Note that both of those features didn't
require any sequence information.
We were looking at features
of word to the right, and,
what's the lower case form of a word?
And that's an interesting
general observation.
In early work on sequence models people
were very fixated on sequence models and
using the sort of sequence of labeling,
the sequence of tags,
to predict other tags.
It turns out for many of the problems
that were and are conventionally done as
sequence labeling, that the sequence
information is barely useful.
It normally gives you a fraction of extra
performance, but very, very little.
And so, we already saw in this
case the part-of-speech tagging,
that just using this model,
of using allot of
features of the current word to
predict the take performs very nicely.
So that gave us this performance
of 93.7 % on all tokens.
And 82.6 on unknown tokens.
But you can do a lot better than that, as
was being suggested on the previous slide,
by also considering things like,
what's the next word?
And using that to influence the tag.
And what's the previous word?
And so that's what's being referred
to here as the 3Words model.
So you're having features independently
of these 3Words influencing the tag.
And it's actually quite stunning
how well that performs.
So that gives you a token
accuracy of about 96.6% and
an unknown word accuracy of about 86.8%.
And the thing to notice is that
that performance is actually quite
similar to the performance
you get with sequence models.
So if we go back to the performance here,
that you can see that that
performance is very close to the
performance that's being listed here for
the MEMM tagger, 96.9%, 86.9%.
96.6%, 86.8%, fractionally below but
exceedingly close in performance.
Okay, so what we've learned
about part-of-speech taking
is that by itself changing from generative
to discriminative models doesn't
give a big boost to
part-of-speech taggin performance.
The big boost comes from being able to put
in lots of features of observations and
combine them together in a good way.
So, that's things like suffix analysis,
word shape features,
lower casing, things like that.
So, this additional power from having
rich features has been shown to
result in major improvements to
the accuracy of sequence models.
There is some cost and the cost,
as you'll probably find out in the
assignment, is that training discriminant
models is just much slower than
training generative models.
If you remember back to language models,
you can estimate language models
essentially just by counting data.
Whereas for discriminative models, we have
to do processes of numerical optimization,
and they just are much
more time intensive.
That completes the discussion
of part-of-speech taggers.
And so now you should be in a position,
not only that you understand something
about part-of-speech tagging, but
in general, how to apply maximum entropy
sequence models to part-of-speech tagging
and other similar sequence problems.